---
title: 'Install GDAL Ubuntu'
date: 'October 2 2021'
excerpt: 'Install GDAL on Ubuntu'
cover_image: 'images/posts/002_gdal.png'
---

# Install GDAL on Ubuntu

This post is taken from [Mother Geo's post](https://mothergeo-py.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/how-to/gdal-ubuntu-pkg.html)

GDAL is a translator library for raster and vector geospatial data formats.

OGR Simple Features Library is a C++ open source library (and commandline tools) providing read (and sometimes write) access to a variety of vector file formats including ESRI Shapefiles, S-57, SDTS, PostGIS, Oracle Spatial, and Mapinfo mid/mif and TAB formats.

OGR is a part of the GDAL library.

GDAL/OGR are used in numerous GIS software projects and, lucky for us, there are bindings for python. In fact, you may want to check out the [Python GDAL/OGR Cookbook](https://pcjericks.github.io/py-gdalogr-cookbook/).

This article describes a process you can follow to install GDAL/OGR on Ubuntu.

## You may need to install the Python Dev project

If you are installing the GDAL/OGR packages into a virtual environment based on Python 3.6, you may need to install the python3.6-dev package.

```bash
sudo apt-get install python3.6-dev
```
## Install GDAL/OGR

To get the latest GDAL/OGR version, add the PPA to your sources, then install the gdal-bin package (this should automatically grab any necessary dependencies, including at least the relevant libgdal version).

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntugis/ppa
```

Then update your packages

```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

Install the GDAL/OGR package.

```bash
sudo apt-get install gdal-bin
```

To verify the installation 

```bash
ogrinfo --version
```

## Install GDAL for Python

Before installing the GDAL Python libraries, you’ll need to install the GDAL development libraries.

```bash
sudo apt-get install libgdal-dev
```

You’ll also need to export a couple of environment variables for the compiler.

```bash
export CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal
export C_INCLUDE_PATH=/usr/include/gdal
```

Now you can use pip to install the Python GDAL bindings.

```bash
pip install GDAL==<GDAL VERSION FROM OGRINFO>
```
